Hey, we're going to talk about designing a
Replay System! So, I'll give you an overview
of Replay Systems. Well, talk about Deterministic
vs. Non-Deterministic Replays. Oh, that sounds
fancy, doesn't it! We'll have an overview
of how we're going to do things. Hint, it's
the second one, and we'll be introducing a
circular or ring buffer, as a concept. So,
one way to do replays is Deterministic or
Event Storage Replay. That's where we store
all of the starting state of the game, the
seeds of random numbers the AI state, etc.,
etc., everything about the player, the world.
From that point, after that single storage,
single frame snapshot, we just reproduce all
the player input into that virtual controller
and it takes up much less storage, but the
simulation must run perfectly, we can't forget
anything. And it's hard to do rewinds with
this, because everything is kind of designed
and set up to go forward, but that's one way
of doing things. We basically put the player
input back in from a no in start state, or
if the game is more Non-Deterministic and
we want to just store the state we can store
the entire game state every frame. This leads
to larger files sizes, but allows random access
and it's much easier to rewind, too. We could
just replay the frames in any order, but it
does mean that every GameObject, that we want
to see move or record the position of, needs
to store it's positions every frame. So, we're
going to go with this latter Non-Deterministic
state storage way of doing things, for our
game. So, here's an overview of how we are
going to do things. We are going to, for each
GameObject say the Player here in the Inspector
the cube, etc., we are going to have a Component
in the Inspector, we're going to add a new
Script Component, down here somewhere, and
that's script is going to be responsible for
saving the state of this GameObject. Now,
there will be one more GameObject to consider,
which is the, we're going to need a Game Manager
of some sort, and that's going to store things
like whether we're in Replay or Playback Mode
at the moment, and all of these things will
reference the Game Manager, to determine whether
we're in Replay or Playback and how long we
want to be recording for, etc. So, every GameObject
will have a script on it, down here, I'll
use black again, which will make it store
it's state somewhere into some member variable
into memory basically, which is fine for short
replays. And then, when we go back into Playback
Mode it looks of the Game Manager and says,
right now let's just start playing back. So,
we're going to need some sort of data structure.
What sort of data structure are we going to
need? Well, I'm going to call it... I don't
know, what shall we call it? Let's have a
look at what I called it, in my prototype.
I called it MyKeyFrame, so we'll probably
create ourself a class called MyKeyFrame.
Now, you could use the Animator and I have
tried using the Animator to store state, but
the problem with it is it's not as performant,
it's a bit slower, and it creates a bit of
complication we don't need. So, in this key
frame we're going to need float, which gives
the time of the frame that we're storing.
We're also going to need to have a Vector3,
for the position of the GameObject, and we're
also going to need a Quaternion... Ooh that
doesn't look much like a Q does it? ...to
store the rotation. So, it's as simple as
that. It's going to be a new class, or you
could make it a struct, if you wanted to,
but the performance is very similar between
a class and a struct. The difference, by the
way, between a class and a struct is, in a
class things are stored by reference, and
in a struct things are stored by value. But
it makes very little difference, in my testing
the class actually runs a little bit faster.
Alright, so there's what we are going to make,
and then, it's going to be a relatively simple
bit of code, that's going to record key frames
and play them back. But the one little trick
we do need, is this Circular Buffer idea.
So, what a Circular Buffer is, is this, if
we have... It's often easiest just to draw
some rings for this, so let's draw a couple
of rings. OK, so the amount of frames then,
that we have go to deal with, are as follows:
So, imagine that we have just I don't know,
however many segments I've got around here
for now, we're probably going to have hundreds
or thousands of frames, but imagine it's just
this many. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9! All
a Circular Buffer does, it's pretty simple,
is it starts by storing into here then, goes
to here, here, and so on, it's just storing
things into an array, but when we have finished
and got to here, then we go straight back
and overwrite this guy. OK, so it's like a
CCTV Tape, it's overwriting, and then, we
overwrite this guy. So, we keep the last X
number of things. Now, a way to do that, an
operator that makes this really easy is modulus,
this percentage tells you the remainder, the
percentage time tells you the remainder. So,
if we want to store it in frame, something
or other, we could say Time.frameCount, which
tells you the total frame count in the game,
since it started, Modulus the buffer size
.bs for example. It's unfortunate, but there
you go. And if you do Modulus like that, then
this is exactly what will happen to this frame
number, it will just loop around every buffer
size, and the reason for that is that the
remainder, however big this frame count is,
the remainder when you divide the frame count
by the buffer size is always going to be this
circular number, you want to put it into.
So, just have a think about that, make sure
you understand that, if I'm on frame 9 and
I do a Modulus with a 9 frame buffer size,
I get a remainder of 0. So, this is element
0 here, remember arrays start counting at
0, so with 0 there would be no remainder,
so that would go in there. When I got to say
frame 10, actual game frame 10, and I'm Modulus
9, I get a remainder of 1, so we'd be putting
it in index number 1 here and so on. And it'll
just loop around, which is pretty cool right!
Fantastic! So, that's an overview of how we're
going to do things. Let's, in the next lecture,
dive in and actually start making this work!